Hansel minutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 89. Recorded
live Saturday, November 28th, 2009. Support for
Hanselman it's. This provided by
teller rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks gadgets for gifts
with Richard Campbell. Hi Scott Hanselman.
And it's another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm here
with Richard Campbell. For those of
you who like Richard Campbell welcome,
he's here for those of
you who don't press stop
now and I'll see you
again next week. We're going
to do a focus show
here, Richard. We're not just
going to hang out and
chat. And this is where
we're on a mission. We're
on a mission, my friend,
because it's a, it's a,
what is this? Now? It's
black Sunday, black Saturday, black
Friday. It's a Saturday. And
the day after black Friday,
black Friday, of course is
the day that everyone camps
out at best buy to
get a laptop for a
hundred dollars. I went to
best buy Richard and I
went at 10 in the
evening to see if I
could get that laptop. I
went at 10 in the
evening, the night before, there
were 150 people in line
intense already, already. So I
went home. That's crazy. This
episode of Hansel minutes is
the geek gadget gift guide
episode. Say that three times
fast. And I said, who
better than Richard to come
and talk to me about
geek gadgets. We've got a
list of some gadgets here
that we think are the
ones for geeks. If you're
a geek and you want
to gadget find your spouse
or significant other or domestic
partner and let them listen
to this show, maybe you'll
get some cool stuff. That's
what we're here for. We
are here. So, Richard, what
is your first, your first
item on the geek gadget
gift guide list? Well, my
first gadget would be the
PDC laptop. Yes. Laptop that
we did not get that's
right. The one that you
didn't get in, I did
get, you know, so are
you giving it to me
for Christmas? I'm not, but
it would be nice if
people did give it to
me for Christmas, but I
went out looking for the
equivalent machine. Excellent. And I
found one scandalous. I know
I'm amazing because of course
the Acer makes this machine
that they give out a
PVC, but it's a custom
made machine. They're not making
any more. They are yet.
But if you want it
to go out now, let's
just talk about the basic
specs of this machine. Dual
core up to eight gigs
of Ram running windows seven
64 bit, right dual touch.
And it's a convertible tablet.
Okay. And it's got one
and mounting for one hard
drive at Hewlett. Packard makes
a machine called the media
smart. This is not the
media smart that I'm used
to the media smart home.
No, it's not. This is
their tablet. And so it's
actually a media smart tablet
and it is essentially the
same machine. The difference being
that you can actually dress
this one up so you
can actually buy it with
more memory in it. You
can put an SSD into
it. You can put a
larger processor into it. So
you can spend anywhere between
about $700 up to about
$1,500 on one of these
machines. But if you're after
one of these PDC tablet
machines, okay, HP makes your
closest equivalent today. $700 bare
bones dressed-up then you'll spend.
Wow, well that's about how
much they said it was
worth six, $700. Right? Very
cool. So that's the HP
media smart. You're sure about
that smart tablet, not the
media smart homes. Although that
home server would be a
lovely gift as well for
Christmas, for a geek, The
actual model number is T
Z. Okay. We'll have links
for all of these on
the Le on the show
links. I'll go in church
for each of these. If
you are unable to Google
with Bing, I will find
them for you. Okay. So
there's one. So that's a
little spending. My first item
is the, the chumby, the
chumby is actually an older
item from a while back.
This is like a little
tiny fuzzy alarm clock with
a little Linux machine in
it. And they just, it
was about $200 and it
was cute. And when I
say fuzzy, I mean, it
was literally covered in suede,
but now they just came
out with one that is
not covered in suede. And
for that, you can get
called the chumby one and
it's a hundred bucks, much
more accessible. It's got a
little four inch touchscreen and
it looks like a funny
little square. It look, you
know, it looks like it
looks like an old style
GPS with the kind of
CRT curved back. Yeah. But
it's a widget machine. It's
literally something that you can
download widgets to. And it's
an open SDK. So you
can put anything you want
on it. And there's a,
you can have it be
a Twitter client. It can
show whether it can play
little, little animations and stuff.
It's a, a little SDK
kind of in your pocket,
but it's, it's kind of
something that you would sit
on your, on your nightstand.
And this is also one
of the chumby. One is
different from the original chumby
in that it has a
battery. So then it can
be untethered and I've seen
people make continuous integration server
monitors out of it. You
know, baby monitors. It's really
anything you want. It's a
tiny computer. So chumby one
99 bucks. Nice. Okay. What
do you, Yeah, for me,
I'll stick on the, well,
you know what? Let's just
pick an easy one. I
think 2010 is going to
be the year of the
ebook. Really? That is pretty
easy. That's pretty obvious. Do
you think it could happen
now? I think we're there.
And honestly, I think 2012
will be the year where
they give eBooks books away
with a subscription to the
wall street journal or something
of the equivalent. But I
think right now between the
Kindle and Sony easy book,
there's really no excuse not
to own an ebook. Everything.
Is there, Look that everyone's
talking about the new book
from Barnes and noble. Yeah,
Sure. That'll be great when
we actually can lay our
hands on one. I mean,
I'm talking about what can
you get today? That'll be
in the stocking for sure.
You know, and I have
a Kindle and I've, I've
had a Kindle DX. I
had an original Kindle. I've
got a Kindle too. Right
now. They just released a
new firmware like two days
ago. And now suddenly my
Kindle is a very competent
PDF reader, just updated free
software. And suddenly I have
a PDF reader that I
didn't have before. Nice. So
that right there for me
makes the Kindle so much
more useful that I can
now drop PDFs on, on
it that I maybe wouldn't
have. I could take word
documents, save them as PDF
directly from word and just
plug it in, drop them
on the device. There's no
conversion. It's a native PDF
reader. This is something that
the Kendall DX had. Now
the Kendall two has it
for me that makes the
Kindle a winner over the
Sony. But the people that
I talk to are, you
know, who were into eBooks
say that they don't like
that Kendall is tied to
Amazon while Sony is slightly
tied to Sony, but really
more of an open reader
because it supports the pub
format. But I think what
I like about the Kindle
also is that your, your
ebook has an email address.
So I've seen a guy
take a whole bunch of
documents corner of all the
PDF and then mail them
to his Kindle. Yeah. Well
actually, if, if you don't
have them as PDFs, they'll,
they'll charge you 10 cents and
convert them on their own
now. So you just send
a, send a word doc
and it'll just show up.
Now it doesn't mean it'll
look good. But so, I
mean, if you really want
it to look nice, it
needs to be a PDF.
But if you email anything
to your Kindle, it'll just
show up. It's like 10 cents.
It's fantastic. I don't mind
that the Kindle is a
direct line from Jeff Bezos, his
wallet into my wallet. Right.
I don't mind. And I
also like that if you
lose it or you torch
it or you goof it
up or you drop it
or whatever, they're all in
the cloud. And you know,
everybody trusts Amazon's cloud I've.
I also liked that if
you have an iPhone or
an iPod touch or now
Kindle on the PC, the
page that you're on is
synchronized between all of those
devices. So I can read
it Well, my PC for
awhile. And then when I
go back to my Kindle
itself, it's Get on a
plane, read for awhile, come
back, pick it up exactly
where you left off. Awesome.
Definitely ebook. I have the
Kindle on my list as
well. So I think we
both agree that you can't
go wrong with the Kindle
and it's down to like
200 bucks now. Yeah. Which
means that $99 is coming
soon. The one I'm after
now is the international edition,
where for your, your purchase
price, it works on everybody's
three G network, Right? Although
if you, if you're not
on your home three G
network, you will pay a
dollar or so transport fee,
right. For, for visiting another
network. So for, and the
internet, the international coverage map
is up on the amazon.com/kindle
website, but it doesn't work
exactly everywhere. I mean, most
of Europe, most of Western
Europe, most of Asia, I
think there's some trouble in
Australia though. Either. I've heard
that it's not really good
coverage down there. Beats the
heck out of not working
at all. And considering you
live in Canadia or whatever
that is, how was your
Canadian Thanksgiving? Do you guys
have, thanks for that at
all. We did. We did
it a month earlier than
you. We had more to
be thankful for. That's true
being, being from Canada and,
and all. Okay. So I
talked a little bit about
this in my gadget show,
but I still think that
this is a great device
and I'm still using it.
Now. This is the IMO
USB monitor. This is a
great little monitor. I'm actually
holding it here. It's a
seven inch monitor. There's a
touchscreen version. The one I've
got also has a pivot.
It's got a brightness control
and it's just a it's,
it's crazy. It's a, it's
a seven inch USB monitor.
I T I used to
have four monitors. I took
one of them and I
put it into my arcade
machine and I've always wanted
that extra monitor. And I
ended up putting a tweet
deck down on this monitor.
So this has been my,
my not quite a monitor
monitor. I'll put down tweet
deck or put my calendar
or notes, show notes for
doing a show. And recently,
since I haven't rebooted my
windows seven machine in so
many months, this has been
the monitor where I put
the restart. Now postpone dialogue.
It's been down there for,
it's been down there for
a month or two now
because I, my computer desperately
wants to restart and I
really don't want it to,
so this monitor is dedicated
to that dialogue box. Yeah.
This is a little, it's
like 800 by four 80.
It's It's big. Yeah. It's
800 bucks. That's about right.
Actually 800 by four 80.
It's quite small, but what's
nice about it is that
that happens to be the
size of a, a hulu.com
video. And it's also a
16 by nine monitor. As
you point out, it's a,
it's got that nice resolution
that is appropriate for movies.
So I put, I put
DVDs down there and watch
them well, while doing email,
it's just perfect. It fits
nicely underneath your, your giant
monitor. So I've got this
like 24 inch and then
I've got the little seven
inch right below it. Nice.
And it's like a hundred
bucks or something. It's just
a fantastic little device. That's
cool. It is. Yeah. And
inexpensive too. I'm just looking
online here. $130 retail. Well,
yeah. And there's also a
touch one too. Wow. Yeah.
Yeah. I hear that. There's
talk about the touch working
with windows seven. So it
could be a really cheap
way to at least start
fooling around with the touch
stuff. Yeah. And it's about
time. People started selling independent
touch monitors, so that that's
been annoying to me. I
don't want to buy your
computer. I just want to
buy a monitor. We touch.
Yeah, exactly. I don't want
a kitchen PC from HP.
I just want the, you
know, as soon as Dell
sells the 24 inch, nice
quality Dell with touch, it's
all on. You know what
I mean? It's on man.
I'm so I'm so getting
that that'll be that. Totally.
All right. Should we keep
moving on? Yes, sir. What
do you got for Getting
a little out of the
computer toys, but still gadget
stuff? The Tom, Tom go
seven 40. Okay. This is
a GPS from Tom, Tom.
That's right. And why is
this better than average GPS
I can get? Well, the
main thing, This one is
that they finally gone with
the built in live service.
So you don't need to
have a Bluetooth connection to
your cell phone for data
or any of those sorts
of things. It's all in
one. So it has your
traffic data for your local
area, right on the map.
Okay. So what is, what
is getting it from, is
it, is it wireless? Is
it cell phone? Where's the
data It's from a three
G system. So you do
have to eventually usually comes
with a few months where
the subscription, you do eventually
have to buy it. But
the reality is these navigation,
every, a navigation systems are
now cheap. So you might
as well have one. It
makes your life a lot
better. And then when you,
once you throw in the
traffic data, these things come
incredibly compelling. Now you use
it every time I'm even
using it to go home.
Right. I know where home
is, but the fact that
it'll tell me, don't take
your usual route, go this
way because of this accident,
that's really useful stuff. So
GPS is, is moving away
from just finding a way
to get somewhere and now
telling you the status of
the, kind of the direction
Yeah. Of the route that
you're on. Huh? Yeah. I'm
not a Tom Tom fan.
I am a, a Garmin
NUVI fan. And I've know
that the NUVI has one,
I think for $130. Now
that includes a lifetime subscription.
Nice for, for the live
traffic. And I don't know
where they're getting that from
someone implied that it might
be from a back channel
on FM radio. So it
may only work in the
U S but it might
also be 3g. I'm not
sure Different ways for that
to work too. I've built
into my car. I have
one that comes in through
XM radio. Oh, really? You
know that, I definitely think
that the next step for
GPS is the live traffic
update as well as automatically
updating themselves because I've got
a new V that I
bought four years ago. And
unfortunately it's garbage because it
was a $600, like four
or five years ago. And
now it's now the equivalent
is $99. Okay. But if
I want to buy a
new map, it's $199. Yeah.
That's an interesting business. And
all the while you've got,
you know, stuff from Google
where it's going to be
free, you can plug it
into your Android phone. I
think that the GPS people
are really panicking. And I,
so I suspect that next
Christmas GPS is, are going
to be a whole other
universe. It's going to be
live connection, live updating over
the web free maps. I
mean, they're, they're getting there,
they're getting their lunch eaten
by Google and they need
to step up or they're
in trouble. Well, and you've
got this battle back and
forth between the dedicated device
and the all in one
device. Your iPhone can do
everything except that if you
try and make it, do
everything, your battery life's like
an hour. So, you know,
the D that's why I
still have a dedicated MP3
player. And I, and I
still have a dedicated GPS
because I need those things
to work for the tasks
that they doing and stay
out of the way on
my phone. Hey, everybody, this
is Scott coming at you
from another place in time.
No doubt. You probably bumped
into testing tasks now, and
then, and your work and,
you know, writing functional tests
is probably not your favorite
thing. It's kind of difficult.
It takes time and the
results can be dubious. We
don't get ready to start
tests. Thanks to Tellerik with
the, the new webinar testing
framework. Building web automation test
is a breeze. You've got
code automation with advanced asp.net
Ajax, and several light applications.
You can write a single
test, have it executed against
multiple browsers at once. You'd
benefit from a rich API
there's link support integration with
visual studio, unit testing, also
end unit X unit and
MBA unit, not to mention
the free rappers for Telerik
rad controls for ESPN and
Ajax, and several light, all
shipping with Telerik's new testing
tool. One of the best
features, the webinar testing framework,
which is developed by art
of test is it's absolutely
free. Freddie got hooked on
web testing framework, start using
it right away, go to
tellerik.com for more info. Thanks
a lot. I wish that
I could update my, the
GPS software or use the
monitor in my car. I've
got a 2007 Mazda that
has a very nice bright
screen, except the software that
runs the GPS is crap.
And I feel uncomfortable putting
in a aftermarket GPS. Cause
then I say, well, what's
this giant seven inch screen
for them. Yeah. You know,
so it's, it's a shame,
but if you don't have
a GPS, this is definitely
the time to buy one.
I think we can both
agree on that For sure.
Yeah. They, these are mature
products now. Yeah, definitely. So,
so next on my list
is something that I actually,
I don't own, but I've
heard so many nice things
about it. It's the de-link
wireless pocket router. This
is a couple of years
old now, but it's about
40 bucks now. And this
was 150 at one time.
And now it's about $47.
This is a portable pocket
router. Now you've used this
before. Have you not? I
just cooked another one. They,
I use where I usually,
I carry one with me
all the time, except when
they're fried a, my laptop
bag and the main place
that I use it more
than anything is in hotels.
Cause it variably, I've got
somebody, Oh, you know, Carl's
in the room with me
or my wife's there or
somebody and we all want
to be on internet at
once. So just that automatic
reflex to plug into the
ethernet connection of the hotel
and share it over a,
a, a, a wifi connection.
It's just incredibly useful. The
main thing I like about
this particular one, the seven
30 is that you can,
there's a power cable that
comes with it, that doesn't
plug into the wall. It
plugs into a USB port.
And then I also carry
a on ACD USB converter,
which I can use for
charging anything that'll charge off
USB. So the combination of
that device and this, I
can have this little self
contained wifi node without carrying
the wall wart and, and
anybody can access it. Now,
is this, is this something
that is only about hotels
or what I use this
at, at Starbucks as well?
I suppose you could use
it at Starbucks. But my
experience with Starbucks is that,
you know, if you've got
a card you can already
get on there, their service.
So it's just not that
big a deal. The main
thing with this one is
you could switch it into
different modes, right? So one
mode is as a Nat
router access point. That's the
one for the, for the,
the hotel, but you need
to have an ethernet cable
that has internet on it
to plug into it. Right.
But you can also flip
this around. So if I
had a device at an
ethernet port, but didn't have
wifi, I can use this
as a wifi client, so
it can connect a device
to wifi. I was just,
it's just hard to set
up. It's, it's a little
Fiddly because there's only one
ethernet port on it. So
you've got to plug into
it to come to configure
it, or you can configure
it over the wireless, but
you can get it into
a state where you don't
know where it is and
you basically have to reset
it and reconfigure it. But
it's the price of being
that small. Also the antenna
on it is hopeless. The
range on it is minimal.
So Not something that I
could have, like a small
conference and have 10, 15
of my friends over with.
No, I think that'd be
pushing the envelope on that
thing for, for any more
than three or four machines.
I think you're a little
wishful for something quite this
small is not a lot
of range, not a lot
of power, but it will
work for sharing two machines
or tooth machines, four machines
on the same internet. Okay.
And would this be the
kind of thing where if
I was at a hotel
and I had like my
laptop netbook, and let's say
a cell phone that had
wifi, this would be a
good, a good thing. Absolutely.
I think you're, you're exactly
describing the scenario where you
would use one of these.
It sounds like 40, 40
bucks on Amazon. It sounds
like a heck of a
deal. Yeah. You can't really
go wrong. And my, I
have burned a couple of
them up, but all, all
of these really lightweight wireless
devices, they eventually fail. Right?
I mean, I can't tell
you how many little links
this nodes I've gone through
over the years. None of
them lasts forever. So just
be prepared for the fact
that after a year or
two, if you use it
regularly, it will be cooked
And that not literally burned
up, but it'll just die
one day. Yeah. One day
it won't respond to anymore.
Crazy. All right. Well, that
sounds like a plus for
me, I'm going to get
that. Awesome. Now you had
a video camera on your
list. You had a little
portable camera. I'm a fan
of the flip and my
wife just got the ultra
HD and she's crazy about
it. And I think the
big thing with this one
is that it's a D
it's, there's a lot of
small video cameras, no two
ways about it, right? There's
lots of different video cameras
that are made. What I
like about the particular this
flip, they, it works well
with the regular mortals. It's
got a USB port on
it. You plug it in,
it's got its drivers on
it's dirt, simple to set
up and you can get
these videos out of it
very easily. The battery life
on it's outstanding. So we,
we dragged one to Nepal
and back and took all
kinds of little videos with
it. And it served extremely
well. Now this is the
ultra HD or the Mino
HD. She's got an ultra
HD, which, And what is
the difference between the Mino
and the ultra? We're really
sure that the, you know,
the ultra was sort of
the top of the line.
And I have heard a
few folks complaining that it
has problems, but I haven't
found any, like, it's always
served just fine for us.
Okay. I'm looking at their
website here. It looks like
they're both the Mino HD
and the ultra HD are
both about $199. The minnows
got four gigs and the
ultra has got eight gigs,
which means the amino we'll
do an hour. And the
ultra we'll do two hours.
It looks like the real
difference is that the ultra
is over an inch thick
and the Mino is almost
a half an inch thick.
So it really is about
size. It appears. Yep. But
either way, these things are
the size of a, of
a deck of cards. Really?
They're small. Yeah. And they'll
both do a seven 20
P full HD. Now I've
had the ultra, the original
ultra, right. And I had
the Mino and then I
got the amino HD and
I sent them all back
and I bought a creative
HD camera. And I
actually wrote this up on
my blog. And I felt
that the low light on
the, on the Vato was
better. And you can get
a Vato now for a
hundred bucks on Amazon, at
least, you know, maybe, maybe
a week. And you know
about it until the price
goes up on, on amazon.com,
at least in the U
S I saw this up
there for 99 bucks. So
there's options between the flip
and the, and the Mino.
And I flip the Mino
in Nevada and I've seen
them all at different price
points. So I think that
you got to keep an
eye, never pay retail for
one of these little tiny
camcorders, cause you really can
find a good, good, good
deals on them. Should you
pay, did you pay retail?
No, I think we've got
a pretty good, we got
to pick this one up
at a Costco For less.
Very cool. Yeah. I send
them one 30, one 29.
Yeah. You should be able
to get 40, 50 bucks
off. Definitely. Okay. Now, not
to override you, but on
the other end of the
spectrum for video cameras, the
Canon EOS five D Mark
too. This is a SLR
camera that also does HD
yes. And a 10 80
PhD. But the big, The
thing is suddenly you have
this camera able to do
these beautiful HD recordings and
you put different lenses on
it. So, you know, serious
filmmakers are starting to use
this SLR as their recording
camera, just because the lenses
offer such incredible ability to
do outstanding shots, but this
is not a trivial acquisition.
The body by itself is
about two grand and you
really should spend about a
thousand dollars or so on
a lens or two or
three. And so it's not
a lightweight purchase, but unbelievable
what folks are doing with
the five D it is
really a stunning count. And
even as a camera, I
had a chance to play
with one. I do not
own one, but I did
get a chance to play
with one and the 21
megapixel sensor. It's so light
sensitive that with a decent,
a spherical lens in indoor
lighting, without a flash, I
was actually able to crank
the exposure up so much.
I overexposed on indoor lighting.
So it's just really the
kind of camera where if
you take the time to
learn to use it and
you it, and the price
of it, doesn't kill you.
This is a picture. This
is a camera that will
get pictures of your kids.
You couldn't get any other
way. And how much does
something like this cost And
about 20 2020 500 for
the body, depending on how
well you shop and a
thousand or so for a
good lens. Wow. That is
a, that is a lot
of money. It's an expensive
toy. This is the thing,
you know, Pete Brown who's
on my team at Microsoft
has this really great HD
camera. And recently my creative
Auto's battery died in the
middle of a shoot. And
I switched over to his,
and you can go to
channel nine and you can
guess which of the HD
videos that we shot were
done with the hundred dollar
camera and which one we're
done with the $1,200 camera.
And it, it, it's, it's
hard to, it's hard to
quantify. What's better about the
thousand dollar camera, but it
is better. It is right.
It is an unquestionably better,
but you know, I'm not
sure it's like, is it
clearer? Is it just more
natural, more, better color? I
don't know what it is,
but it just does seems
to have something that the
a hundred dollar one doesn't
work. The question is, is
that something worth a thousand
dollars, right. And I am
notoriously cheap and I just,
it would have to be
freaking amazing if, you know,
for me to justify that
kind of money. And then
you just said yours is
$2,200. You know, if I
were a professional, I could,
I could do it. But
man, that's a lot of
money. You're not going to
get done with a Canon
like that for less than
three grand. Right. And then
the other point is that
this is not just a
camera that I pick up
and for three grand, I'm
awesome. This means three grand
and some classes at the
local community college about aperture
and shutter speed that's right.
Well, and the reality, of
course it has all those
automatic modes, but you know,
it's like a fool to
use. Yeah. You own a
Ferrari and you drive it
in and you put it
in drive, right? Like you're
just missing out on what
it's capable of. And this
is the thing, it depends
on what you decide to
care about. Right? So this
actually brings me to another
device that's kind of nice.
And this is actually something
that Jeff Atwood turned me
on to. It's the lacrosse
technology VC 9,009 alpha power
battery charger is a, a
high end battery charger for
people who care about a
mil amps and how much
they can, how much life
they can get out of
a battery. It's not just
a regular battery charger where
you just drop batteries in
and forget about them. But
it's got all the details
on a little LCD and
it tells you about, you
know, how much current it
can provide. It can give
a full amp, it can
give 200 mil amps and
can ramp it up and
down. It can charge all
cells from 200 amps to
two full amps. You can
go the 9,009 or the
9,000, which is a faster
charger. It's got a nice
little four column LCD. That'll
tell you whether or not
something's charging. It does double
A's. It does triple A's
and it'll do all different,
different brands. And it's also
a conditioner. So if you
have an old cell, an
old battery that you want
to bring back, you can
go through the, you know,
deep discharge and refresh function.
And then it'll also tell
you when it thinks that
a cell is dead and
when you should toss it.
So if you want to,
you're a cheap bastard and
you want to squeeze as
much out of a rechargeable
battery as possible. And it
definitely the battery charger to
check out. And it's only
40 bucks. And you're talking
about Nike heads and nickel
metal hydride batteries, right? Yes.
Primarily nickel metal hydride. You
don't really know cats or
are 10 years old. You
probably just want to give
up on that. Cause you
can go and get like
a S a Sanyo and
a loop. You can buy
an eight pack for 20
bucks of nickel, metal height,
whereas in the antelopes are
nice because they're already charged
when you buy them. Right.
So, you know, between that
and this, this battery charger,
you could do your whole
family worth of batteries. Well,
the thing is, if you
treat metal hydrates, well, they'll
last a several hundred recharges.
So it's also somewhat of
an ecological thing that you're
producing a lot less battery
waste if you do this
well, right? Of course you
have to keep track of
them. And the thing is
that we're so built in
just throwing our batteries in
the kitchen, a kitchen drawer,
and forgetting about them that
they, they, you can, if
you don't treat the batteries
with respect, then you're gonna
start treating all these expensive
batteries like disposables, and then
they'll get spread all over
the house. So if you're,
if you're a house that
uses a lot of batteries,
you got a lot of
toys. You got a lot
of the gadgets consider switching
over to these, these batteries
and then build yourself a
little battery station or declare
some corner of the house,
the place where all batteries
are. Right. What works for
us? All right. I've got
another one. I also think
that 2010 is the year
that the SSD is really
come of age as well.
Oh yeah. Deeply. So, and
they're getting cheap. You can
buy basic, you know, 32
and 64 gig SSDs for
a hundred dollars, $150, O
C, Z just announced a
one terabyte SSD. Wow. In
the three and a half
inch form factor. That seems
a little over the top.
But I think it also
makes the point that a
drive that small can have
a lot of storage. I
think people are used to
64 gigs as, as, as
a size. Yep. I've got
a 256 gig OCC Vertex,
which is a fantastic, fantastic
drive. Yep. It was a,
it was 600 bucks and
there is no better upgrade
for your personal computer than
an SSD flat out Day
and night. If there's one
thing you want to go
out and buy your loved
one, to me that uses
computers regularly, it's go get
an SSD. You'll be stunned
at the difference. It it's,
it's obscene. It's like a
guaranteed 7.9 score on your
windows experience index immediately. You'll,
you'll see boot up times,
you know, 10 seconds, 12
seconds. You don't have to
defrag. If you get the,
the Intel's done. Does the
OCC have the trim support
that everyone talks about? Because
SSD start to slow down
some, some single digit percentage
as they start getting used
depending on their generation. And
then there's a command called
trim. That's built into windows
seven. So the idea is
if you have the updated
firmware and an SSD that
supports trim, this will prevent
that inevitable slow down and
give you the speed that
you'd like throughout the life
of the, of the SSD.
Yeah. And the OCC guys
are pretty Good about good
firmware and their drives and
maintaining them and so forth.
They're quite a reputable brand.
And I think that's an
important part when you're talking
about this kind of technology
is you can always find
somebody selling something cheaper. It's
usually not worth it. You
know, the well, you know,
but the don't the hardcore
people say that the only
SSD in town is the
from Intel. They do.
And I think they are
a little overboard on that.
It doesn't need, it's not
quite that severe. There are
other vendors out there that
are making absolutely capable drives.
And like you said, you're
using an OCC. They're excellent
drives. Yeah. I'm absolutely bananas
over my OCS. And I
do know that Brad Wilson
and other folks that are
really hardcore will say that,
you know, if you're going
to go and spend the
money, then you might as
well spend the money on
a really, really nice drive.
And that means the Intel,
but it's almost like saying,
you know, I'm going to
buy a new car. Well,
really you can only buy
a Mercedes. There are no
other vehicles. And, and I
think that that's a little
over the top. I think
that if you can, you're
going to, if you can
afford it. Sure. Go for
it. But the thing that
I like about the 256
gig is that it's not
small. It's, it's a little
spending, it's 600 bucks, but
at the same time, let's
say that let's say worst
case scenario, nightmare scenario. This
thing lasts a year, right?
That's $2 a day for
365 days of joy of
just pure. You know what
I mean? Just give up
your latte once a day
and you'll just have a
wonderful life or at least
a wonderful year of speed.
Totally. And my best gauge
that these drives are actually
improving in quality and less
risky is you're seeing their
warranties go up. So OCC
is now offering three year
warranties on virtually everything five
years on their high end
models. So bit by bit,
they're committed to the fact
that these drives are, are
reliable and that the old
problems of the earlier generation
ones have been overcome. Now,
There is the concern that,
of course, when they die,
they die immediately. Yeah, it's
absolutely. That's true. But again,
technology has changed such that
I'm backing up my computer
every night, right? I have
a, I have a home
server I ghosted every night
automatically. So while it's true
that one day this SSD
will die and it won't
be subtle. The MTBF on
these things is where they
say three to five years.
So it's, it's conceivable that
this thing will, will last
a couple of years. And
by then I'll have bought
a larger, cheaper one. Yep.
And then technology is definitely
moving forward on these. But
I think we're at a
maturity point now where there
are an easy replacement for
regular drives. Definitely. Let me
see. One last thing. This
is kind of a silly
one for me. And, and
you can give me a
silly one too. This is
the paper pro nano miniature
stapler, and, you know, silly,
silly to have a stapler
on your, on your wishlist.
But this is a $9
little stapler. And it just
is one of these staplers
that always works. It seems
silly, but it is, it's
got a ridiculous amount of
positive reviews. Amazon, everyone I've
ever talked to who owns
one of these things is
like literally impressed with it.
It staples like, you know,
15 pages at a time,
even though it's rated for
fewer, it's just a great
little tiny portable stapler. And
I don't like to think
about my stapler. You know
what I mean? The amount
of the amount of work
that I've put into speaking
about the stapler now is
probably more than any stapler
deserves. But I know if
I, if I thought about
it this much in my
day to day, like I've
probably had bad stapler experiences
and I've talked about it
less than this. So I
will stop speaking. It's a
guy state player by it.
It's a great little stapler
is the silly gadget that
I played with lately is
at strange loop. I actually
dropped off a couple of
remote control helicopters for flying
between the cubes, really hard
to resist, you know, cube,
cube, farm, life needs entertainment.
And when you have that,
that four or five foot
space between the ceiling and
the top edge of the
cubes, it just opens up
an opportunity for helicopter passage
from end to end in
the room, no windows seven
needed, but these little, these
little remote control helicopters are
they're cheap. Now they're like
$30 And you don't, you
don't plug them into windows
and like, are the USB
powered and then they just
try it. Yeah, No, they're
just regular electric electric helicopters.
I just find that. I
just assume that everything charges
USB now here, you know,
somebody, somebody showed me a
picture of a USB pet
rock and I read sure
why it charges on USP,
but it uses USB for
its power. I'm not sure
why the rock needs power.
Maybe it's warm. You know,
I do so many USB
toys, terrible USB toys all
the time. I think that
the humping dog is like,
you know, where are we
going with this? I haven't
all sorts of problems with
USB. Cause I can't tell
some things support a ham.
I have 500 mil amps
and some things I have
a full lamp. I've got
this well, that Garmin NUVI
I was mentioning. Yeah, I
lost the USB adapter for
it and I want to
charge it. But every time
I try to plug in
one of the random us
mini USB AC adapters, I
have lying around, it thinks
it's being connected to a
computer. So I can't have
it plugged in and charging
at the same time, which
makes it effectively useless. Right.
So I'm wondering if, if
I can give it more
amps, will it realize it's
not flooded into a committee
And just be fine? I
don't know. Yeah, it should
be problem. I was going
to say, or I just
go by the TomTom that
you said to buy. Yeah.
Yeah. You can always go
get the Tom, Tom. I
also think that coming up
this year, we're going to
get the USB three is
going to start showing up
with a 10 times faster
transfer rate again, 10 times.
Yep. Five gigabit USB. So,
well, You know, when it's,
when that comes, that might
be time for me to
upgrade my machine, but I'm
running the, you know, I'm
running the same machine, the
same machine that Jeff Atwood
built for me. Yes. I
have upgraded the Ram. I've
added hard drives and stuff.
And I think all I'm
going to do now is
I'll probably add an SSD
to this machine. I added
the, the two 56 one.
I added that to my,
my laptop And it made
big difference. I had a
massive difference. It'll be interesting
to see what happens with
USB three, because of course,
obviously we're gonna need devices
as well. I think the
big thing is going to
be drives that, that, that
transfer weight we can we'll
finally have drives that run
as fast on USB as
they do internally. Hmm. Hey,
did you buy a Zune
HD or do you guys
not have that in Canada?
Not available Kennedy yet? No,
they are gorgeous though. We
are using it all the
time. The kids were just
listening to it in the
car. I actually, I went
and we liked the Zune
so much because of that.
We have, we had actually
three zones, but you can
plug them all into one
account. Right. So we only
have to pay once and
then get as much music
as we want. And then
I actually went and bought
my wife a, a new
in dash player for her
car that will let her
plug the zone in. Beautiful.
And she's listening to that
a lot more than, than
anything else. Yeah. It's interesting.
MP3 players are now evicuitous
nobody thinks anything of them
anymore. I found my old
diamond Rio, the original 16
megabyte that came out as
soon as the court case
had been resolved. You remember
that there was a Supreme
court case over MP3 the
day that was settled in
Diamond's favor. I ordered one.
So I have like one
of the first thousand. Very
nice. Yeah. And it's a,
it's ancient. It's a great
big thing with no capacity.
Hmm. You can put four
it and put four songs
on that thing. Something like
that. Yeah. Cool. Alright. Well
that is our gadget gift
guide. We'll put links to
all of that up on
the show and we'll return
next week for some more
technical content. But for now
I am Scott Hanselman and
thank you, Richard Campbell, always a
pleasure. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.